# CS360-Mobile-Architect-Programming
Applied mobile development principles and best practices to develop mobile applications using user-centered design principles and industry standards. Upon completion of a fully-functional mobile application, I conducted security, product assuredness, and compatibility checks before launching the application.
# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The apps requirements were the user needed to be able to register and login as a user. The app needed to allow the user to add weight that was saved and these were displayed to the user. The user needed to be able to edit and delete a weight they entered. The app needed to offer an alert for achieving a target weight by asking for permission to send an SMS message. This app was designed to allow a user to track their weight while trying to achieve a target weight.
# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The login screen was needed as was the main screen that the user would see their weights and be able to add their weight. Another screen needed was to edit or delete a weight that was selected. A screen for adding the weight was also necessary. Another screen was added that displayed the whole list of weights the user entered. The main screen has everything the user needs to add weight and see their last seven entered weights. The UI is designed to give the user quick access to what they need as well as keeping everything focused on one screen to achieve the main goal of the app. The designs were successful because they are clean and simple. They do not try to do too much but give the user what they need. 
# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I approached the coding by looking at what was going to be needed such as classes, databases, and features. I started with the main objective and the design to begin the coding. I knew things were going to change as I went so I made sure to stay organized with naming and creating classes. I researched how others achieved certain features or any questions I had prior as well as all through the process. These can be applied to the future because they are not specific to this app. These are general approaches, techniques, and strategies that can be used in development for apps as well as any other development process.
# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I specifically ran the code to check if the added feature worked. I would also check all the other aspects of the app as other parts were added to ensure a new feature did not break something previously working. I added output to track variables if I though they might have been an issue in something not working correctly. Testing is important because if the app does not work than what was the point in creating and spending so much time coding it. It revealed how being organized is really important in being able to quickly track down possible culprits for errors. It also revealed that working with new objects or features can add time because knowing how it works is important for using it properly as well as finding why there is an error.
# Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
Besides the initial design and plan for how the app would function and look, I had to innovate after that until the “finalization”. I had to innovate when the design to use a file to store the weights was not working correctly. I pivoted to a database instead. This then led me to pivot the design for the table and change it to a listview. I then had to innovate the design to find out how adapters worked in order to inflate the listview. There were others as well but the general idea is that after the initial design you will have to innovate because things will change and you need to be able to adapt and overcome. 
# In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I feel the table on the main page is the most successful. The table displays the last 7 weights entered and although it seems simple it has some things going on behind it. There is a database that is used to get the data that a custom adapter uses to display to a listview. The database is queried for all the data except the first row because that is always where the target weight of the user is stored. The adapter calls another method to specifically get the last 7 weights, sort them by date, and then reverses the order so the most recent is on top. The table allows a user to select a row to be able to edit or delete that weight and the database is updated respectively. 
